Introduction
In this module, you’ll get started with the most popular programming language among data scientists - R. This language is widely used for data mining, statistics and data analysis by data analysts, data scientists and professional research analysts.

 

It is very easy to pick up for beginners and is sophisticated enough to perform highly advanced data analysis. That is why this program is primarily based on R. 

 

Note: The graded questions and assignments of this module are not accessible currently. They will be made available after the program launches.

 

Pre-requisites:
This module is designed for beginners with absolutely no experience in R (or other programming languages).

 

If you have worked with R before, you may find the initial segments easy. Nonetheless, you are recommended to go through the segments and write programs to make sure you don’t miss out on anything important.

 

In this session:
This session’s aim is to familiarise yourself with R, so you can pick up the intermediate and advanced sessions easily later.

R Programming Language
Through this lecture, you will realise the importance of programming in data analytics. You will also see how and where R is being used by data scientists, as well as understand the reasons for its popularity.

Now, in order to ensure effective learning, the learning path of R is broken down into 3 pieces. Next, Rohit will walk you through your roadmap in learning this language and becoming an R expert.

Installing R & R-Studio
You need to install both R and R-Studio on your system before actually getting started with R. In this page, you will be guided through the installation process and get introduced to both of them.

 

Install R

Step 1: Download the package relevant to your system (Windows or Mac or Linux) from the CRAN website.   

Step 2: Install R like you normally install any new software package.

 

Now, Install R-Studio

Step 1: Download the R-Studio Desktop package from the R-Studio website.

Step 2: Install R-Studio using user’s setup process.

 

Before you move on, make sure you have installed both R and R-Studio on your system. In this lecture, you will be introduced to different components of R-Studio.
