The objective of this module is two-fold:

1) to learn the basic and advanced functionalities of Excel and

2) to learn data manipulation and analysis to solve business problems using case studies.

This module assumes no pre-requisite or prior knowledge of Excel.

The module is divided into three sessions. In the first session, you will learn how to prepare well-formatted reports using sort / filter operations and advanced formatting techniques. 


In the next two sessions, you will analyse a telemarketing business problem to find the types of customers which should be targeted. You will accomplish the same using formulae, pivot tables, visualisations,  v-lookups etc.
  

We recommend a few guidelines on how to study this module, the most important being that you should keep working along with the videos (by pausing the videos intermittently) and replicate the analysis. If you perform hands-on tasks for the entire module, you'll be surprised at how much you have learnt in a short amount of time.

Also, we recommend that you attempt the practice assignment, evaluate yourself and re-watch the lectures where you make mistakes or are not confident. A task is always done better the second time.   

In this session:
Understanding the Excel interface
Sort and Filter
Report Making: Basic and Advanced formatting 
Printing and Page Layouts
Passwords and Naming Files

Understanding the Excel Interface
Welcome to the first segment of Data Analysis in Excel. In this segment, you will understand the Excel interface and learn how to read a typical data file and the structure of the Excel interface. If you are completely new to Excel (or have minimal experience of using it), this is the place to start! 

 

In the entire first session, we will use the hospital charges  data set. You are requested to download the data file from the bottom of this page. 


But before we start analysing the dataset, let's understand what we're going to accomplish in this session. 

The Hospital Charges dataset has more than 150,000 records of treatment of various ailments in several US hospitals. Some stats about the dataset:

The dataset has a record of 100 ailments
It has a list of 3000+ healthcare providers (hospitals, medical centres, etc.)
It has data from 50 states of the USA and approximately 2000 cities across the USA
It describes the cost of treatment for approximately 7 million patients
Each record (or row) is a unique combination of state, city, ailment & provider. It also lists the average cost of treatment for a particular ailment.

 

How are we going to use this dataset?

We are going to analyse this "raw" dataset and prepare a "report" having the list of providers treating a specific ailment in a particular state of USA. Subsequently, we will rank providers by the cost of treatment.

Such a "report" will be extremely useful to government agencies and patients across the state. Instead of analysing the entire dataset, they will now use this report to find the cheapest healthcare provider in their city. Think of this report like a sorted "Yellow Pages" or "Dictionary".

 

In the process, we will learn about some tools that help in analysis like:

Sort & Filter
Conditional Formatting
We will also learn about formatting tools that make a report readable.

So, without any further delay, let's step into making this report.
